High in this video we're going to talk about global and local scopes.
So scopes and name spaces.
Well let's take a look at what happens when we assign a value to a variable or we assign an object technically
to a variable right like a equals 10.
Then as we know we've created this variable this label called 10 and it now references an object in
memory at some memory address that contains that integer 10.
So we always use to say the variable points to that object.
Another way that we can say is that the variable that name.
Right because the variable is just a label right it's a name is bound to that object.
That's just another way of saying it references that object.
Now that object can be accessed using that name using that label in various parts of our code.
So for example if we say equals 10 and then we say print a when we are actually asking Python to give
us back whatever aid was bound to.
And maybe you know a few lines down the road we say equals a plus one.
We're doing the same thing with taking the value of current value of A.
So we're asking Python to give us back the value that that label is bound to.
We add one to it and then we store that back.
We bound we bind that to a new value too.
In this case all depending what started off as if it's of 10 would have 11.
Now we bind a to a new object 11.
Right so we've seen that in the past but of course we can't just reference A anywhere in our code that
might be places where that label doesn't exist.
Or maybe that they will exist but it means something else.
And we've seen that before.
If you have code let's say in your module you have variable A and then you define a function that has
a parameter called a.
Then when you pass that value inside let's say you pass in a value to that function as an argument.
Well the aid that is inside the function isn't necessarily the same value as the that's in the global
module.
So you can't just reference A anyway.
And even if you could it doesn't mean that it's necessarily the same object that you're talking about.
So there is this concept that the name of the object that is bound to only exist in certain sections
of our code in specific parts of our code.
Now the portion of the code where that specific name binding that we're looking at that we're interested
in exists is called the lexical scope or simply the scope of the variable.
So we'll take a look at that in more detail.
But one of the things that's associated with that scope is that these bindings are stored somewhere.
So yes they exist in that scope.
Right so equals 10 exists in some scope.
Right because that binding exists but where is it store and what is stolen something called a namespace.
And we can think of a namespace simply as a table that contains the label and the reference that it's
pointing to it's bound to.
So name spaces and scopes go hand in hand because every scope has a namespace.
So let's talk about the global scope thost now the global scope is essentially the module scope.
It spans a single file only so when you create a module in python you have a global scope in that module.
There is really no such thing as a truly global scope that goes across all of the modules in our entire
application not in Python.
Now you do have something that's that's kind of global truly global across all the modules.
But that's the built in scope that's the scope where objects like true or false or even non.
Right.
But also dict and also print print as a function.
But it's just an object.
So it has to live somewhere right.
It's living in a namespace somewhere.
When you when you ask for Python to use print to call the print function it has to go and look up and
say well where's the object footprint.
So you can think of that as another scope.
And that's kind of available everywhere.
That's called a built in scope so the built in and global variables can be used anywhere inside our
module.
Right.
So anything that you define in the module let's say aik will turn at the module level.
You can now access that equals 10.
After that point and it will reference that particular label a Everywhere in your code.
Even inside functions will see how to do that.
So global scopes are nested inside the built in scope.
See what I mean by that.
So we think of this.
These scopes basically with things live right where we have name spaces and things live in those name
spaces so that built in scope has a name space and the name space is just a label and basically a pointer
to an object whatever its bound to.
So its the bindings of the label to the objects.
So in the built in scope you might have bindings for true and false in print and so on.
But now when we load up our module lets say we have a module called module 1 well that module has its
own scope and it has its own namespace space but we think of those as being nested one inside the other.
Same thing if we have another module we have module to it has its own scope.
Now its this thing from Module 1 it doesn't intersect.
There is no overlap between those two modules scopes but it has its own namespace.
However it does live inside the built in scope.
So why do we think of it as being nested.
Well because when you ask for Python to give you the object that's bound to a label it needs to go look
it up in a namespace in one of those tables.
So where does it look.
Well if your code is sitting inside module one it's going to look in the namespace for that module one
scope it's going to look in this namespace right here.
If it doesn't find that binding it doesn't find that label that you're asking for.
Let's say you're in Module 1 and you ask for true you want to say you know a equals true and it needs
to go look for this object called True.
Well if it doesn't find true inside your module ones namespace it's going to then go up into the enclosing
namespace which in this case is the built in scope namespace.
And it's going to look for it in there.
And if it finds it great.
Right.
So that's how Python works.
It always looks at the current scope and if it can't find the binding it starts looking outwards and
in closing.
Solist do an example let's say we have module one Doppie Y and we say print true right.
That's the only line in that module.
So what's happening here.
Well Python doesn't find true and it doesn't fine print in the current the module or the global scope.
Right.
It doesn't fine print and true in Module 1 we haven't defined print and true in Module 1.
We're just saying print true.
So we're using these things without having defined them already.
So they're not in the local scope or this they're sorry they're not in the module scope.
So now Python says OK well let me go look.
You know one step up let's look in the built in scope.
And of course it finds both the print function and the true object of the true label.
So the print label and the true label in the enclosing scope in the built in scope.
And so it's going to use those.
And that's why it prints up.
True for second look at another module let's say module number two and this is the only line of code
that we have in the module we have print a.
Well you probably should know by now that print a is going to cause a runtime error.
Why.
Well it is not defined.
Well what does that mean not defined right.
Well here's what happens.
Python doesn't find a print in the current which is the module or the global scope.
So what does it do what it's going to go and look for them in the built in scope.
Right.
It looks up if it can't find it in the current scope.
So it finds print.
That's great but it doesn't find a.
And there is nothing above the built in scope.
So at that point Python says Sorry but I can't find it anywhere.
You can't use it.
It hasn't been defined.
And so you get this runtime name ever Let's take a look at module number three and let's say that we
have this.
Now here we have where I was signing something to this variable this label called print.
But remember that print is also a builtin So print is a label that exists in the built in scope.
However here we're defining we're assigning a value to print which means that print now lives in the
local scope of module 3 in the global scope.
Right in our Mondial scope.
And while we've just defined it to be a function so a single print is still a function and it's going
to take in a single parameter and it's going to return the string hello and then whatever the parameter
was.
So now if we say s equals print world it's not going to call Python's built in print function because
Python is going to say oh you want print.
Well let me look in the current scope which is the module scope.
I found it.
All right I'm going to use that.
So it uses the print function.
And so what happens here is that we've essentially overridden what Python's print does right well we've
changed the you know the meaning of print.
So that's also called masking.
Right.
We've masked the original print so usually it's not a good idea to do that right because you want to
keep your print function so you redefine it to mean something else.
How do you tell Python.
Well I don't want my local one I want the one that's above.
You can't so you have you would have to delete it.
And we can do that.
I'll show you in the code how you can do that.
So we've talked about the built in scope and then we've talked about the global Amadeo scope that lives
inside the built in scope if we think of them as nested scopes.
But when we create functions functions also have their own scope.
So when we create variable names inside those functions so we take labels and we assign an object to
them with extensionally binding a label to an object while that lives in the scope of that function.
Right.
When we assign a value.
So for example when we say equals 10 well variables defined inside a function though are not created
until the function is called because remember how does it work when you have a def let's say in a module
and you load up the module.
Python goes through and it basically compiles everything.
So it finds your function.
It says OK you've created a function fine.
I'm going to take that function name and I'm going to put that into the glow into the modules scope
into the module namespace but the contents of the function what's inside the function doesn't run.
So there's nothing that's actually running there's no code running.
So there is no scope that's being created when the function is created.
The scope will get created when the function is called but not before that.
So every time the function is called a new scope is created for when that function runs.
And that kind of makes sense because you can call a function let's say with different values for its
parameters.
And of course that means that every time the function is called It's got different bindings for it.
You know for its variables the parameters are variables.
The arguments you know are labels that are bound to some value that we pass in when we pass the arguments.
And every time we call the function those values could be different.
So the bindings could be different which means we really have a different scope every time.
So variables are defined inside the function that are assigned to that scope.
So in other words if you if you make an assignment like equals 10 inside a function then that variable
A that label a is put inside the scope of that function and it's called a local scope it's called the
scope of the function the local scope.
So the actual object of the variable references of course could be different every time the function
is called.
Right.
And that's why recursion was because we're able to call the function from inside the function.
But every time we pass a different value and every time we call the function it gets its own scope and
we'll see that in the code.
We'll we'll look at some examples.
Let's look at one here.
Let's say we have def my phunk a comma B and C equals eight times b and then we return C..
So what are the labels that are local to this function here.
Well obviously a and b.
The parameter names right.
These are going to be local to that function that don't exist outside of the function.
They exist inside the function.
C is another one.
We are signing something to see so we've just created this new label C and we're binding it to some
value with the product of a and b.
So when Python looks at this at compile time and this is really important not to differentiate between
compile time and runtime because at compile time when Python encounters this piece of code it makes
some determinations.
It looks at everything in here and it says OK.
So for my fund a b and c are going to be local variables.
It doesn't create the scope or the namespace because we haven't called the function but it predetermines
at compilation time that a b and c when there are when they will be created and put into a namespace
will be into a local namespace not the module namespace and certainly not the built in namespace.
So these names will be considered local.
Once they get created.
So now if we call my func Z comma two what happens.
Well now Python creates a scope and the scope is of this function as it's running.
So when the function runs we have these three variables a b and c that are in the local namespace and
they have values z 2 and z z.
Now once the function exits the scope by the way goes away because the function is finished.
So that's Koepp is no longer needed and it's cleaned up and will come back to that in a second.
Let's say we call my phone again with two different variables 10 and five this time.
What happens.
Well at that point we call it the function by some creates a new scope and it creates those variables
a b and c in the local namespace and it binds them to these values 10 5 and 50 so we have different
scopes.
Every time a function is called the scope does not get created when the function is defined.
The only thing that happens then is that Python makes the determination of all the labels that are going
to be in that are in that function that will be used or referenced or assigned and it figures out are
they local or are they something else.
Because they could be global in the module or they could be built in.
Right.
So same names right.
The same variable names but they're in different scopes and therefore they're not bound to the same
objects.
They have different values.
So what about nested scopes we've already seen global scopes or modules scopes being nested inside the
built in scope.
Well the same thing happens with functions as well.
So if we start with the built in scope then we have the module scope that's nested inside.
And we think of this nesting thing because that's how Python looks for variable names and labels right.
It starts in the current scope.
So if you've got code in your module it's going to look for the labels binding in the module namespace.
If it doesn't find it it's going to go and look in the built in namespace and if it doesn't find it
then we have an error.
But if we have a local scope like when we have a function and we reference something inside that local
scope then Python is going to look in the local scope first if it doesn't find it then we'll go look
in the module scope and then it will go look in the built in scope.
So we always think of scopes as being nested.
Now when we call the function the second time then we have a different local scope.
Right.
Or maybe it's a different function that's obviously going to have a different local scope as well.
So we think of the scopes as being nested.
So the namespace look ups.
So when requesting the object bound to a variable name I just want to repeat that that's really important
what happens.
Let's say we say print a.
Well let's not worry about print we know print is going to go into the built in scope so it will try
and find the object that's bound to the variable somewhere.
Right.
It's where we're referencing this label called a.
It now needs to look for it.
So it's going to look in the current local scope first.
So if we're running a function then it's going to look in that current local scope for a for can't find
it.
It's going to go and work its way up the inclosing scopes.
So we'll look in the modules scope and then we'll look in the built in scope.
Now we'll see in the next video over the one after that we can actually create functions inside functions
so you can have of course a lot more nesting than just local 2 module to built and you can have local
within local right within module within built in.
We'll we'll we'll take a look at that.
So let's take a look at another example.
So the built in scope contains true.
We know that true lives there.
So let's say that we have now a module that we've created let's say Module 1.
So as soon as we load module 1 a global scope is created for the module module scope if you want to
call it that.
Now our first line of code says equals 10 what happens well Python says OK you're making an assignment
to a label a.
So I need to create this label and bind it to 10.
Where am I going to create it.
I'm in the module I'm going to create it in the module scope.
So it puts a and binds it to 10 in the global scope namespace.
Now we define a function that say def my func takes a single parameter called B and then we have these
three lines of code.
Print true.
Print a print B.
So what happens.
As soon as Python encounters this line of code it's compiling the function.
It's not running it right but it is going to make the determination that my phunk.
It has to create it.
So that's being created.
That's a label that's going to be in the global scope but that's it.
As far as it goes in terms of creating variables and bindings However it does look at this and it says
ok b is going to be local and a Hiver is going to be global because well it actually doesn't say he's
going to be go.
It's going to look at a and b here that because it's a parameter to say OK this is local here.
It's not going to do anything.
It's going to say well don't know yet we'll find out at runtime what's happening.
But it's a non-local variable and we'll come back to that.
So now when we call my funk of 300 what happens.
Well now with calling the function.
So the local scope was created.
We've passed 300 as an argument to my phunk.
So now Python says OK now I'm assigning 300 to be it's an assignment right.
So it creates B and binds it to the object 300 in the local namespace.
And now when we print.
True it's going to go ahead and find true in the built in scope when we print a doesn't find a in the
local scope you'll notice.
So it goes up one and finds it in the global sculptor's.
OK.
So I will print 10 out and then when we say print B can look for b starting in the local scope finds
it going to print 300 Fickell my phunk of a we're creating a different local scope.
And here we're passing a and we're assigning it to the label b.
So now B is going to be bound to the string object A in the local scope.
And so we're going to print again true 10 and 8.
Now if you remember reference counting that we were way back in the beginning of the course right we
talked about objects and then every time we referenced them that means we have let's say a label that
points to it that increases the reference by one.
Well what happens with the local scope is that once the function finishes running all these all these
bindings go away they're cleaned up the local scope is destroyed.
Right.
The namespace is destroyed which means that all these references are gone.
So whenever you have you run my phunk 300 Well this 300 object if it doesn't already exist gets created
and it's reference's incremented by 1.
So it has you know a reference count of 1 but maybe it already existed and then it just increases the
reference count and points to it.
But as soon as my func finishes running the scope is destroyed and the reference count for that object
is decreased by 1 and then potentially we have garbage collection and memory management that happens.
So we say that the reference count is decremented right because we're removing a reference and we say
that the variable goes out of scope.
So now this label here that was B is no longer available once the function finishes running.
So inside the function B is available outside of the function once the function is finished running
B is gone out of scope.
It doesn't exist anymore.
Or at least not that particular B with its particular binding.
So how about accessing the global scope from the local scope.
Now we've seen that when we try and access something let's say we want to reference the value true.
Right the label true.
Then we know that Python is going to look at the local scope doesn't find it might go to the next scope
up maybe not the module scope doesn't find it looks at the next scope up which is the built in scope
finds it uses it.
Right.
So when retrieving the value of a global variable from inside a function Python automatically searches
the local scope first and if it doesn't find it then it works its way up the chain of scopes and the
name spaces.
So it starts at the local goes to global and then we'll see that we can have multiple locals in between.
But for now let's assume it's just a function inside a module.
So it goes from local to global to built in.
Right.
That's the way it searches for that particular label.
But what about modifying the global variable from inside the function.
So let's look at this code.
Let's say we have equal 0 and then we define my funk and inside of my funk we set equal to 100 and then
we print out what's critical here to see is that this is an assignment operation.
Whenever there's an assignment Python says OK I'm creating something right.
I'm creating a new label.
I'm going to bind it to something.
So at compile time not when the function is called but when the function is actually compiled when Python
actually sees the code not runs it but actually sees this function I creates the function it makes the
determination that a is going to be a local variable to the function doesn't get created yet but it's
going to be local that gets determined at compile time so the local variable here is masking the global
variable a.
Right because when we say print a here which is this going to refer to what Python is going to look
for that label a in the local scope for us.
That's where it's living that's where it's going to start.
It doesn't find it then it will go and look at the global scope.
However in this case it finds it because when we said equal to 100 when the functions running because
a determined that because Python determined that a is going to be a local variable it says OK a is equal
to 100 goes in the local scope and that namespace when we say print a python finds in the local namespace
it uses that value for a that binding not the one that's in the global namespace.
So we set a masques the global variable.
So let's see what's happening.
So we got a built in.
We run our modules so we get our global namespace we create a equals zero.
OK so now we have a zero right in the namespace.
Then we create this function.
So now we have my phunk which is bound to this function whatever the function is in memory.
It's just an object and the label as my phone is bound to that function but that's it.
Now when we run my func then we get this local namespace that gets created at that point.
The first line of code says equals 100.
So Python is now going to set a is going to bind to the object 100 but which namespace is it going to
put it in.
It's going to put it into the local namespace because it made that determination that if you're assigning
a value inside the function it goes into the local namespace.
And so when we print my phunk it's going to print 100 when we run my Funk's or it's going to print 100
because a is 100 not going to print 0 and if we print a after my phunk has finished running what are
we going to get.
Well we're going to get zero.
We didn't modify the global A.
Right.
Within when we said equal to 100 it didn't change the value of a module because it wasn't the same way
because there were different scopes.
So what if we do want to do that.
What if we want to set you know change the value of a variable that's in the global scope from inside
a local scope.
What we can do that by using the global keyword it's kind of almost like a declaration.
We're going to tell Python so you know and we're going to tell it say well look I'm going to use this
variable eighth years.
I'm going to sign it a value.
But this variable a is not local.
Please make sure that it lives in the global namespace that doesn't exist create that there if it exists
already used that.
So let's see how we do that.
So let's start again with the same example.
Equals zero.
So now we've got a built in and our global with a zero was in there.
Now we have this function.
Right.
So we run this function.
Sorry we don't run the function.
Python looks at the function compiles it creates the label my func in the global namespace in the module
namespace and at that point it sees that we have equals 100.
So normally I would say well is going to be local but you'll notice this line of code right here where
we say global A.
This is telling Python it's like wait a minute yes I'm assigning a value to a.
But this a is actually in the global namespace.
So you're basically forcing Python to recognize that this a which means this a.
Out here in the module means the one that's in the global namespace right.
So now this a is going to be when this function runs this in here is going to be referencing this namespace.
This this label a in the global namespace so if we call my phunk then a local namespace a local scope
was created.
And when we print a what are we going to do now we're finished running.
So the scope disappears but when we print a we're going to get a hundred because yeah inside of my phunk
when we called it we modified a we said equal to 100 but which label a was it.
It was the one in the global namespace.
All right global and local scoping.
So I really want to emphasize this a few times because that's really important.
So when Python encounters a function at compile time not at runtime but when it first sees that def
right or that lambda it says oh I'm going to create a function.
I'm not going to have to do that.
So what happens.
It will scan basically for any labels or variables however you want to call those things that have values
assigned to them.
Right.
Anywhere in the function it doesn't matter where it occurs in the function it's going to find all these
assignments and what it was on the left hand side of that assignment those labels it's going to say
hey if you haven't told me these are global they're going to be local.
Remember it doesn't create the variables yet it doesn't create the namespace it doesn't create the scope
because we haven't called the function.
But it basically puts a side saying these are going to be local.
These are going to be global.
Right.
So variables that are referenced but not assigned of value anywhere in the function will not be local.
So if you say print true it's not going to say all true is a very is a you know has to be a local variable.
And I'd say no it's not local.
You're not assigning a value to it.
Right.
And you didn't declare it as global.
So it's it's not local.
I don't know what it is but it's not local and at runtime.
Python will then look through the inclosing scopes to figure out what it is and if it's available somewhere.
But it's only in cases where you're referencing a variable.
But assigning a value to it as soon as you assign it becomes local unless you use the global keyword.
So let's look at an example.
Let's say we have equals 10 and we have this function here.
Def phunk 1.
Print a.
What's happening here is that is referenced only and this entire function.
So at compile time python the term is that is non-local.
So when we run this we're actually going to print the value of the global variable when we call func
1.
It's going to print out 10.
Now let's have another function let's say.
Def phunk 2.
And we set 8 equal to 100 what's happening here is that it's an assignment.
So at compile time python says a is local.
And so when we run phunk to when we call phunk to it will create a set and bind it to a hundred.
Said its reference to that object in the local namespace so it will basically mask this a that in the
global namespace let's say we have this function here.
Def phunk three and global a and equal to 100.
Now here Python sees the assignment.
So normally it would say local but before we've actually assigned we said no global is global.
So now Python recognizes that.
OK so you mean the a that's in the global namespace.
So it's going to say a will be in the global namespace.
Now they may not exist.
You could say global B because one hundred.
After the function has exited you'll now have a variable called B in the global namespace.
OK.
Python will do that it's fine to assign a value or you can't reference one before it's been assigned
something right you can't reference B if you haven't assigned a value to B but you can certainly assign
a value to B.
It will just create it.
So at compile time it determines that a is global.
What about this phone.
For this is kind of the interesting one and this is where it kind of all comes together.
What's going to happen here.
Well remember at compile time Python looks at phunk fool.
And what does it see and assignment.
OK.
Do we have we define that as global anywhere in this function.
Nope.
So what happens is local.
So now is going to be local.
So what happens when we call fonk for.
I mean here we are referencing a is going to go and look at the A in the module.
It should write because we said well if we can't find it in the local namespace then you need to look
up in the enclosing namespace which is the global namespace so he doesn't exist.
So we need to go look in the module but it does exist at that point in time when the function runs exists.
It's in the namespace.
It hasn't been assigned a value though.
Right because we assign the value in the second line of code.
So a exists and we're trying to reference it before we've assigned a value to it because now when we
say print a Python knows is local because it's already made the determination at compile time that a
was local.
And so when we called func for we get a runtime error.
Right.
So it's not like it's it's going to use the global variable here and then make a local variable here.
If you have an assignment to a anywhere in the function it will then and you haven't said global 8 it
will make it local.
And so you can't start referencing it before you've assigned a value to it.
Right.
If you took this outside of the function and just had print it equals 100 in the module you would expect
a runtime error because it's like while I haven't created a yet.
Right.
I haven't assigned a value to it yet.
So let's switch to some code and let's see all these nitty gritty details in action.
Thanks for watching.
I'll see you in a bit.